README.md, before:

# balance-robot-mujoco-rl
Use reinforcement learning to train self balancing robot in MuJoCo environment




# Process commands


Convert the PyTorch model to ONNX

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../backup/best_model.zip  convert -e Env01-v1

Test the ONNX model. Confirm the robot still balances as well as the PyTorch model.

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../backup/best_model.onnx test-onnx -e Env01-v1

Start the onnx2tf docker contain, will open shell

    docker run --rm -it \
        -v `pwd`:/workdir \
        -w /workdir \
        docker.io/pinto0309/onnx2tf:1.25.12

In the docker shell convert ONNX model to tflite (is this correct???)

    onnx2tf -i ./balance-robot-mujoco-rl/backup/best_model.onnx -b 1 -osd

Exit docker container

Test the tflite model. Confirm the robot still balances as well as the PyTorch model.

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../../saved_model/best_model_float32.tflite test-tflite -e Env01-v1

Copy/paste output of following command into `quantize_tflite.py`

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../backup/best_model.zip test -e Env01-v1 --show-i

Get the input name from the outputs of the following command `inputs['input'] tensor_info:` -> `input`. Update the name in the `representative_dataset` function included in `quantize_tflite.py`

    saved_model_cli show --dir saved_model/ --all

Transform the tflite model into an int8 quantized tflite model

    python balance-robot-mujoco-rl/src/quantize_tflite.py

Open int8_model.tflite in Neuron, get quantization params and update `test_tflite_quant` function in sb_rl.py

Test the quantized model

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../../saved_model/int8_model.tflite test-tflite-quant -e Env01-v1

Convert quantized model into c array

    xxd -i int8_model.tflite > model.h

The c array can then be included in the microcontroller code along with a suitable tflite library to run inference.


# Training notes

## Reinforcement Learning Algorithms
Some rough notes on training this self balancing robot model.

A2C
- Didn't train well

TD3
- Didn't train well

SAC
- Trained well
- Reasonable model size
- Results in a an Exp (exponential) op being included in quantized tflite model. Unfortunately this op doesn't support int8/uint8 inputs in the tflite lib, and as a result this **model could not be run on the microcontroller**.

DDPG
- Trained ok, once
- Resulting model had weird behavior where it would balance, but delta wheel speed alternated rapidly between min and max
- Large model size
- Successfully ran on microcontroller
- Microcontroller tflite inference results on int8 quantized model do not match that of desktop tensorflow using same model. Weird model behavior prevented further validation.

PPO
- On par, maybe better than SAC in respect to training
- Small model size
- Model include an Exp op (this prevented SAC from being used), but the onnx2tf model simplification step removes this op from the model.
- Successfully ran on microcontroller
- Microcontroller tflite inference results on int8 quantized model do not match that of desktop tensorflow using same model. Tested MuJoCo simulation with real time inference results from microcontroller and the model works.
- **Recommended algorithm**

Commit message:

updates to description, and some initial setup docs

README.md, after:

# Reinforcement Learning for a Self Balancing Robot
Code for creating a trained policy that can be used by a two wheeled self balancing robot. This includes the following steps;
- Training a policy using reinforcement learning (Stable Baselines3 / PyTorch) in several simulation environments (MuJoCo)
- Testing the policy within the simulation environments
- Quantization of the trained model from float32 to int8 so the policy can be run on microcontrollers using TensorFlow Lite (TFLite/LiteRT)

![MuJoCo simulation](./docs/mujoco_rl_robot.gif) ![Real robot](./docs/real_robot.gif)


# Setup

Create and activate the conda environment. This will install dependencies needed for training, testing, and converting the model.

    conda env create -f conda-environment.yaml
    conda activate robot-mujoco-rl


# Process commands

Convert the PyTorch model to ONNX

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../backup/best_model.zip  convert -e Env01-v1

Test the ONNX model. Confirm the robot still balances as well as the PyTorch model.

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../backup/best_model.onnx test-onnx -e Env01-v1

Start the onnx2tf docker contain, will open shell

    docker run --rm -it \
        -v `pwd`:/workdir \
        -w /workdir \
        docker.io/pinto0309/onnx2tf:1.25.12

In the docker shell convert ONNX model to tflite (is this correct???)

    onnx2tf -i ./balance-robot-mujoco-rl/backup/best_model.onnx -b 1 -osd

Exit docker container

Test the tflite model. Confirm the robot still balances as well as the PyTorch model.

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../../saved_model/best_model_float32.tflite test-tflite -e Env01-v1

Copy/paste output of following command into `quantize_tflite.py`

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../backup/best_model.zip test -e Env01-v1 --show-i

Get the input name from the outputs of the following command `inputs['input'] tensor_info:` -> `input`. Update the name in the `representative_dataset` function included in `quantize_tflite.py`

    saved_model_cli show --dir saved_model/ --all

Transform the tflite model into an int8 quantized tflite model

    python balance-robot-mujoco-rl/src/quantize_tflite.py

Open int8_model.tflite in Neuron, get quantization params and update `test_tflite_quant` function in sb_rl.py

Test the quantized model

    python sb_rl.py -a SAC -m ../../saved_model/int8_model.tflite test-tflite-quant -e Env01-v1

Convert quantized model into c array

    xxd -i int8_model.tflite > model.h

The c array can then be included in the microcontroller code along with a suitable tflite library to run inference.


# Training notes

## Reinforcement Learning Algorithms
Some rough notes on training this self balancing robot model.

A2C
- Didn't train well

TD3
- Didn't train well

SAC
- Trained well
- Reasonable model size
- Results in a an Exp (exponential) op being included in quantized tflite model. Unfortunately this op doesn't support int8/uint8 inputs in the tflite lib, and as a result this **model could not be run on the microcontroller**.

DDPG
- Trained ok, once
- Resulting model had weird behavior where it would balance, but delta wheel speed alternated rapidly between min and max
- Large model size
- Successfully ran on microcontroller
- Microcontroller tflite inference results on int8 quantized model do not match that of desktop tensorflow using same model. Weird model behavior prevented further validation.

PPO
- On par, maybe better than SAC in respect to training
- Small model size
- Model include an Exp op (this prevented SAC from being used), but the onnx2tf model simplification step removes this op from the model.
- Successfully ran on microcontroller
- Microcontroller tflite inference results on int8 quantized model do not match that of desktop tensorflow using same model. Tested MuJoCo simulation with real time inference results from microcontroller and the model works.
- **Recommended algorithm**
